<doc>
</doc>
<doc>
</doc>
<doc>
tributes poured in from around the world thursday to the late labour party leader john smith , who died earlier from a massive heart attack aged 55 .
in washington , the us state department issued a statement regretting " the untimely death " of the rapier-tongued scottish barrister and parliamentarian .
" mr. smith , throughout his distinguished career in government and in opposition , left a profound impression on the history of his party and his country , " state department spokesman michael mccurry said .
" secretary ( of state warren ) christopher extends his deepest condolences to mrs. smith and to the smith children . "
in bonn , the head of the german social democratic party , rudolf scharping , said in a statement he was " very affected by the sudden death of john smith .
" a good friend of german social democracy has left us too early .
he was very close to achieving his life 's goal of making the labour party the largest political force in britain " and would be " cruelly missed " in europe , he said .
hong kong governor chris patten , a former conservative party chairman , offered his condolences to the smith family and said his former politcal opponent was a " good and decent man , widely respected . "
in france , french president francois mitterrand sent a message of condolences to smith 's widow elizabeth and to labour party general- secretary larry whitty .
the head of the french socialist party michel rocard told french radio thursday he was " shocked and stunned " by smith 's death :
rocard had spent wednesday evening with smith and his wife after attending the launch in london of the labour party campaign for the european elections .
" he was in great shape last night , and this came as a shock to me , " rocard said .
" john smith was a fervant european . he fought for a great britain that would have a leading role in the building of europe . "
in brussels , european commission president jacques delors , a french socialist , said smith was " a friend and companion in the struggle for justice and solidarity . "
he would be " sorely missed by all who are striving for progress and , in particular , by all true europeans . "
the party of european socialists also expressed its sorrow .
party president , belgian foreign minister willy claes , said : " scotland and britain have lost a great man , europe has lost a great ally and the socialist family has lost a great leader .
" we have lost not just a great friend but a convinced and convincing european whose ideals and work sprang from deeply-held moral convictions and sense of justice . "
in lisbon , portuguese socialist party general secretary antonio guterres sent a message of condolences to smith 's widow .
in london , the socialist international , expressed its " profound sadness " in a letter signed by president pierre mauroy , a former french socialist premier , and general secretary luis ayale .
smith was the group 's deputy president .
</doc>
<doc>
france would not join a us military invasion of haiti as part of an effort to restore democratic rule , french foreign minister alain juppe said thursday .
juppe , in washington for talks with us officials , said he told us president bill clinton that paris had ruled out participation in such an invasion force , which has been suggested as an option by clinton and urged by some members of congress .
" i confirmed that military intervention to kick out the military leadership is out of the question for us , " juppe told reporters in washington .
the french diplomat meanwhile reiterated his condemnation of the military regime in port-au-prince and the naming wednesday of interim president emile jonassaint , whom juppe described as a " puppet with no legitimacy . "
he said france was working to enforce the latest un security council resolution calling for stiffer sanctions if the military refuses to leave power and restore democracy by may 21 .
france also was prepared to participate in a un multinational force to help train a new haitian police force once democracy is restored , juppe noted .
juppe said such a force was in the process of being sent to haiti last october before the collapse of an agreement to restore exiled president jean-bertrand aristide .
in an implicit criticism of us handling of the matter , juppe said , " unfortunately the boat ( with us and canadian troops ) turned back because there were a few people making noise on the port . "
</doc>
